Migrate essentials section docs for 6.0 (#11682)
storybookjs/storybook: docs/essentials/viewports.md

---
title: 'Viewports'
---

> The Viewports Essential toolbar item allows you to adjust the viewport your story is rendered in via Storybook’s UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Viewports toolbar item allows you to adjust the dimensions of the iframe your story is rendered in. This makes it easy to develop responsive UIs.
```

Author: Fixed with latest commit

      height: '801px',
    },
  },
};

export const parameters = {
  viewport: {
    viewports: {
       ...MINIMAL_VIEWPORTS,
      ...customViewports,
    },
  },
};
```

This will add both `Kindle Fire 2` and `Kindle Fire HD` to the list of devices. This is achieved by making use of the exported [`MINIMAL_VIEWPORTS`](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/master/addons/viewport/src/defaults.ts#L135) property, by merging it with the new ones.

```js
import {
  INITIAL_VIEWPORTS,
  // or MINIMAL_VIEWPORTS,
} from '@storybook/addon-viewport';

const customViewports = {
  kindleFire2: {
    name: 'Kindle Fire 2',
    styles: {
      width: '600px',
      height: '963px',
    },
  },
  kindleFireHD: {
    name: 'Kindle Fire HD',
    styles: {
      width: '533px',
      height: '801px',
    },
  },
};

export const parameters = {
  viewport: {
    viewports: {
      ...INITIAL_VIEWPORTS,
      // or ...MINIMAL_VIEWPORTS,
      ...customViewports,
    },
  },
};
```

### Configuring per component or story

There are cases where it's not effective for you to use a certain visual viewport on a global scale and you need it to adjust it to a individual story.

> This Essential's addon allows you to do so. You can change your story through [parameters](../writing-stories/parameters) to include the viewports you need to use for your component. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change your story through [parameters](../writing-stories/parameters) to include the viewports you need to use for your component. 
```

Author: Fixed with latest commit

| **defaultViewport**    | String        |Sets the default viewport                               |`'responsive'`|
| **disable**            | Boolean       |Disables the viewport                                   |N/A           |
| **viewports**          | Object        |The configuration object for the viewport               |`{}`          |

The viewports object needs the following keys:

| Field                  | Type          | Description                                            |Example values                             |
| -----------------------|:-------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------:|
| **name**               | String        |Name for the viewport                                   |`'Responsive'`                             |
| **styles**             | Object        |Sets Inline styles to be applied to the story           |`{width:0,height:0}`                       |
| **type**               | String        |Type of the device (e.g. desktop, mobile, or tablet)    |`desktop`                                  |

> <!-- 

Reviewer 2: What's up with this commented out section?

Author: That was left behind based on item on top of the page
```
<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO: CLEANUP comments once this is vetted.
</div>
```
section was cleaned up
